2024.1.0 (#30614)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2024-01-03-release-20241.markdown

### Improved trigger, condition & action buttons

The bigger change can be found in the buttons to add a trigger, conditions,
or actions to your automation. This change was not just aimed at new users
but also long-time users.

All these buttons are used to give a dropdown that allows you to select the
type of trigger, condition, or action you want to add. This dropdown has been
replaced by a new dialog similar to the one we just saw for the building blocks.

Like the building block, it describes what each trigger, condition,
or action does. These descriptions are important, as they help you understand
what they do.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2024-01/add-trigger-dialog.png' alt='Screenshot showing the new add trigger dialog, which displayed the most common triggers first.'>

If you add an element, we will first show you the most used
triggers/conditions/actions by our community. We now have all others neatly
grouped. For actions, we took it a step further and unified them with
service calls.

### Unified actions

If you have been using Home Assistant for a while, you are probably familiar

> with the “service call”-an action that you can add to your automation. But,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the “service call”-action that you can add to your automation. But,
```

service calls), categorized, with description, and searchable! Being able
to search through all available actions is a huge improvement.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2024-01/add-action-search.png' alt='Screenshot showing the new add action dialog utilizing the search function to find whatever you need.'>

By default, just like with the triggers and conditions, we show you the most
used actions first and the actions for the entities you have on your system.
All others are neatly grouped by integration in the **Other actions** section.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2024-01/add-action-other-integrations.png' alt='Screenshot showing the new add action dialog that neatly groups all other actions that integrations provide.'>

## Description & due date support for to-do list items

The to-do list integration keeps getting better and better. This release adds
support for descriptions and due dates!

If the integration you are using supports it, you can now add descriptions to
each task on your list. It fully supports the Markdown markup to add links,
bold text, etc. If due dates (or due date + time) are supported, you can
set these.

> <img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2024-01/todo-dialog.png' alt='Screenshot showing the new to-do item dialog, where you now can set a description and an URL.'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2024-01/todo-dialog.png' alt='Screenshot showing the new to-do item dialog, where you now can set a description and a URL.'>
```

As shown in the screenshot above, there is a whole new dialog to adjust
your to-do item. But this is not the only change. The list itself has been
improved as well.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2024-01/todo-new-dashboard.png' alt='Screenshot showing the improve to-do dashboard, showing descriptions and highlighting overdue items.'>

It is much cleaner, all big text boxes are gone, and each item is nicely
formatted, including an excerpt of the description and the due date. If the due
date is overdue, it will be highlighted.

## New entity type: Valve

A brand new entity type has been added to Home Assistant: Valve!

Integrations can use this entity type to expose valves, such as a valve on

> a radiator, pool, sprinkler systems, and main house gas or water lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a radiator, pool, sprinkler system, and main house gas or water line.
```

> <img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2024-01/valve-entity-type.png' alt='Screenshot showing an the value entity in the Home Assistant UI.'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2024-01/valve-entity-type.png' alt='Screenshot showing a valve entity in the Home Assistant UI.'>
```

for the Valve addon for Shelly Gas. Additionally, support for it has been
added to [MQTT], and the valve entities also work with Amazon Alexa
and Google Assistant.

Tip: Do you have a switch entity that controls a valve? You can now change the
entity type to valve in the entity settings.

[Shelly integration]: /integrations/shelly
[MQTT]: integrations/valve.mqtt

## Swappable current/target on thermostat & humidifier cards

By popular demand, the thermostat and humidifier cards now support setting 
current temperature/humidity as the primary information to show on the
card.

You can enable the **show current temperature as primary information** option
in the card, which will result in the target temperature being swapped with the
current temperature in the card.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2024-01/climate-card-change-primary-temperature.png' alt='Screenshot showing two thermostat cards. One has the setpoint as a primary temperature, the other the current temperature.'>

## New card features

Last year, we saw many new features added to the cards, so let's start
the new year with some more!

> [@Quentame] added the climate fan mode card feature feature. This feature can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[@Quentame] added the climate fan mode card feature. This feature can be
```

used with both the thermostat and the tile card:

> <img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2024-01/climate-fan-card-feature.png' alt='Screenshot showing the new fan mode card feature the can be used on the tile and thermostat cards.'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2024-01/climate-fan-card-feature.png' alt='Screenshot showing the new fan mode card feature that can be used on the tile and thermostat cards.'>
```

[@janiversen]: https://github.com/janiversen
[#104713]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/104713

{% enddetails %}

{% details "PrusaLink" %}

- The printer state now contains several new statuses, most importantly
  "attention", which always needs your invention.
- Firmware 4.7.0 is now the minimum version for Prusa XL and MK4.
- Firmware 5.1.0 is now the minimum version for Prusa Mini since 4.7.x and 5.0.x
  aren't available for the Mini.

([@Skaronator] - [#103396]) ([documentation](/integrations/prusalink))

[@Skaronator]: https://github.com/Skaronator
[#103396]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/103396

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Reolink" %}

The Reolink `Infrared lights in night mode` entity has been migrated from
the `light` to the `switch` domain.

This means the entity ID also changed, and automations and dashboards may need
to be adjusted to use the new entity ID. 

If you want to go back to the light domain, use the
[switch_as_x "Show as" option](/integrations/switch_as_x/#change-device-type-of-a-switch-from-the-existing-entity)
on the new `Infrared lights in night mode` switch entity and select light.

> ([@starkillerOG] - [#104713]) ([documentation](/integrations/reolink))

Reviewer 2: [#104713](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/104713) seems to be the wrong PR for this change. Should be [#105916](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/105916) if I'm not mistaken.

Reviewer 3: Correct
